Guidance for skipping Alpha for feature gated changes (#7828)
kubernetes/community: contributors/devel/sig-architecture/feature-gates.md

Features generally progress through `Alpha` -> `Beta` -> `GA`. Sometimes we end up deciding that a feature is not going to be supported and we end up marking them as `Deprecated`.

The majority of features will go through all three stages, but occasionally there are features which may skip stages.
While some exceptions may happen, approvers should use the following guidance:
- features that involve API changes must progress through all `Alpha`, `Beta`, `GA` stages

> - larger or more complex changes should progress through all `Alpha`, `Beta`, `GA` stages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- features with significant complexity, risk, or changes to performance or scalability characteristics of a cluster should progress through all `Alpha`, `Beta`, `GA` stages
```

(trying to expand the word "larger" into criteria somehow.. further improvements welcome)

Reviewer 2: +1 to the clarification.

Author: I like this too - thanks!

> - smaller changes that carry non-trivial risk (e.g. due to changing user-facing behavior) might skip

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- features with minimal complexity but that still carry non-trivial risk (e.g. due to changing user-facing behavior)  or changes to  the performance or scalability characteristics of a cluster might skip
```

Reviewer 2: +1 to the clarification.

We should also indicate that changes that carry a risk of making previously working functionality no longer work in certain edges should always start in an off-by-default state.

Author: done

  `Alpha` and start directly in `Beta` (provided the appropriate `Beta` quality is achieved)

>   but should be off by-default until proven in some production environment

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  but should be off by-default until proven in representative production environment that utilized the feature with the scale or variety of use to prove it's working
```

> - smaller changes with low enough risk might skip `Alpha` and start directly in `Beta`

Reviewer 3: those are basically the bug fixes? Is the KEP only needed to introduce the Feature Gate instead of providing config options?

Reviewer 3: If so, we can be open about it

Reviewer 4: Yes, these are "bugfixes which might need a backout"

Reviewer 3: Maybe just say it like this:

```suggestion
- smaller changes with low enough risk that still may need to be disabled might skip `Alpha` and start directly in `Beta`
```

Reviewer 3: just want it to be very explicit

  (provided the appropriate `Beta` quality is achieved) and can be enabled by-default from the
  very beginning
- changes that are explicitly considered as bug fixes are recommended to go directly to `Beta`

>   and should be enabled by-default from the very beginning

Reviewer: Many bug fixes today are merged without a feature gate at all.

Is the intent here that "bug fixes that have a sufficient level of risk that being able to turn the fix off via a feature gate is justified" should be handled this way?

Reviewer 5: we are using Deprecated state to roll out some bug fixes that may have some risk of breaking , see https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/119789

Author: I don't think it actually works in all cases. Let me try to clarify that [yes, I think that bug fixes with sufficient level of risk should actually go with FGs]

Features generally progress through `Alpha` -> `Beta` -> `GA`. Sometimes we end up deciding that a feature is not going to be supported and we end up marking them as `Deprecated`.

The majority of features will go through all three stages, but occasionally there are features which may skip stages.
While some exceptions may happen, approvers should use the following guidance:

> - features that involve API changes must progress through all `Alpha`, `Beta`, `GA` stages

Reviewer 6: In general when we use this term I think it refers to PRs that would trigger API review. So, this is about the K8s APIs, not the broader user surface. So, basically, anything that makes you read https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api_changes.md

> - features that involve API changes must progress through all `Alpha`, `Beta`, `GA` stages

Reviewer 7: > do we consider cli flags and configs for kubelet to be a API change

Yes. https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/sig-architecture/api-review-process.md#what-parts-of-a-pr-are-api-changes is a crisp list of "things that are APIs"

APIs are the way things outside the project integrate with our binaries / servers, and changes to that surface area can disrupt or break integrators. It's important that we be very confident in things that increase that surface area, so having at least a single release where we are still able to adjust that surface area is important.

> So any new flag/api change to KubeletConfig would require alpha -> beta -> GA?

Kubelet config overall is still beta (:-/) so a field inside it can't really be more mature than beta, but generally, yes, new things start as alpha for a release.

> - features that involve API changes must progress through all `Alpha`, `Beta`, `GA` stages

Reviewer 5: I think the other important point is the removal of flags, removing a flag in kubelet per example will make that the new version will fail to start with "unknown flag" (I can not remember the exactly)  so removal of flags need to consider this problem

> - features that involve API changes must progress through all `Alpha`, `Beta`, `GA` stages

Reviewer 5: > So, this is about the K8s APIs, not the broader user surface. So, basically, anything that makes you read https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api_changes.md

we should starting thinking about moving these or some of this conventions to  the CRI API too

> - features that involve API changes must progress through all `Alpha`, `Beta`, `GA` stages

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- features that involve [API changes](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/sig-architecture/api-review-process.md#what-parts-of-a-pr-are-api-changes) must progress through all `Alpha`, `Beta`, `GA` stages
```

Author: done

> - features that involve API changes must progress through all `Alpha`, `Beta`, `GA` stages

Reviewer 6: Added a suggestion with Jordan's link
